---
creation date: 2025-02-22 14:23
modification date: Saturday, 22nd February 2025
tags:
  - daily
note type: Daily Note
---
## Задачи на день
- [x] ascii-table npm for js
- [x] Implement functioning `?` button 
- [x] New note [[The most important coding rules]] 
- [ ] Математика новая тема конспект 30 мин 
- [ ] Физика 30 мин 
- [ ] Философия 30 мин 
- [ ] Ленгва 30 мин
## Идеи и заметки

 **How to calculate the win probability in the 3rd task**? Let's say we have two dice, `a` and `b`, as `int` arrays. We can count the number of times when an element in the first array is greater than an element in the second. If we divide the result by the product of array lengths, we get the probability. The simplest possible variant is to write something like the following (let's use C# for this example)public int CountWins(int[] a, int[] b) {     int n = 0;     foreach(var x in a) {         foreach(var y in b) {             if (x > y) n++;         }     }     return n; 
Note that code doesn't depend on the face count (we can use `6` or `20` or `100`). There are quite a few reasons why `for`-loops are usually not the best option, so you may (well, rather have to) rewrite that using the "somebody already did it" approach:
public int CountWins(int[] a, int[] b) {     return a.SelectMany(_ => b, (x, y) => x > y).Count(x => x); }
Note that we still support arbitrary face count and code is much more concise. You may think that it's not very efficient to loop over all possible pairs, because the time complexity of the algorithm is quadratic in relation to the face count. But it's simple; in my opinion, in this case it's better to stop here. And it's easier to transform this version into "parallel" one than the first.
However, just to illustrate the approach that I will propose to you later in the ⁠🧠interview channel, let's assume that we are asked to make it better than quadratic. The standard heuristic is to sort data (the values on the faces in our case). The sort operation requires `Θ(n log n)` time complexity, and after that we can reuse the standard API to write a piece of code, which is a little more cryptic, but theoretically faster for _a dice with a very large face count_:
public int CountWins(int[] a, int[] b) {     return a.Select(x => ~Array.BinarySearch(b, x,         Comparer<int>.Create((x, y) => Math.Sign(x - y + 0.5)))).Sum(); }`
But again, it's a very speculative "what if I was asked" situation; it should't be considered as a recommended way to do things (the second variant is).